# What is Django?


## MTV
* Model: class that represents the Database structure(table) (ORM Object-relational mapping)
* Template: Front-end / HTML/CSS/Javascript / Jinja
* View: Data Processing.

* Eg: A user logging in:
    1. User navigates to the /login page using GET request:
        - Django will check urls.py and call the View(Function) that is mapped to the "login" URL.
        - The View will render an HTML page(Template) and return it to the user.
    2. The user enters his username/password and submits the form:
        - The form (in template) will send a POST request to the url "/login" containing the user's username/password.
        - Django will check urls.py and call the View(Function) that is mapped to the "login" URL.
        - The view function will check that the data is sent correctly (eg: the user should get an error if only the username was sent(without the password)) if the data is valid the view function will check with the database using models.
        - If the username and password are correct then redirect the user to the home page. else return an error for the user.


## Databases in Django:
* Using ORMS/Models we create a django model (class)
* We create migrations: migrations are scripts that will modify and update the database.
* We apply the above migrations to the database: translating the generated scripts into SQL Queries that will modify the database


## Django model queries:
* Each model has an object called objects we can use it to get/filter data replacing SQL queries.
* Objects has 3 main functions:
    - get:
        * This function returns exactly one object of a model. If such an object doesn't exist then Django will throw an exception.
        * example: Account.objects.get(username="majed") # SELECT * from Account where username = "majed";

    - filter:
        * This function returns a QuerySet of size >= 0.
        * Example: Account.objects.filter(username="majed") # select * from Account where username = "majed";

    - all:
        * This function returns a QuerySet of size >= 0 containing all the objects of in a certain table.
        * Example Account.objects.all() # select * from Account;


* Filters that can be applied within a get of filter query:
    - Account.objects.filter(username="majed") # select * from account where username="majed"
    - Account.objects.filter(username__contains = "ma") # select * from account where username like "%ma%";
    - Account.objects.filter(username__startswith = "ma") # select * from account where username like "ma%";
    - Account.objects.filter(username__endswith = "ed") # select * from account where username like "%ed";
    - Account.objects.filter(username__gt = "a") # select * from account where username > "a";
    - gt "greater than" >: can be used with strings, dates, numbers, etc...
    - lt "less than" <
    - gte "greater than or equal" >=
    - lte "less than or equal" <=
    - Account.objects.filter(username__isnull=True) # select * from objects where username = null;



* QuerySets:
    - QuerySet can be looped over, and we can use indexes just like regular lists.
    - QuerySets are list like objects that has extra functions:
        * filter: This one can be exactly used as the filters mentioned above.
            - eg: Account.objects.filter(username="majed").filter(age__gt = 10)
        * values:
            - It's used to select certain columns rom a table.
            - Returns a QuerySet of dictionaries.
            - eg: Account.objects.all().values('username', 'password') # select username, password from Account;
        
        * values_list
            - Similar to "values" but the only difference is that where values returns a QuerySet of dictionaries "values_list" returns a QuerySet of tuples containing the values.
            - eg: Account.objects.all().values_list('username', 'password')

        * distinct:
            - Returns one of each different values only (doesn't repeat similar values)
            eg: Account.objects.filter(age__gte = 18).values('username').distinct() # select distinct username from Account where age >= 18;
        * count
            - Returns the number of objects in a queryset.
            - eg: Account.objects.all().count() # select count(*) from Account;

        * exists:
            - Returns a boolean telling you if a query set has any objects.
            - Account.objects.filter(username="majed").exists()
            - can be replace with len(QuerySet) > 0
        * first:
            - gets you the first object in a query set. can be replaced with an index [0]
            - Account.objects.filter(username="majed").first() # similar to the SQL's limit 1

        * last
            - gets you the last object in a QuerySet
        * delete:
            - Deletes all the objects in a QuerySet
            - eg: Account.objects.filter(username__startswith= "ma").delete() # delete from Account where username like "ma%";




## Django setup and installation:

## Django main commands:
* Creating a django project:

```bash
django-admin startproject project_name
```

* Creating an App:
```
python3 manage.py startapp app_name
```
* Running the app
```
python3 manage.py runserver 
```
* Creating migrations
```bash
python3 manage.py makemigrations app_names(optional)
```
* Applying migrations
```bash
python3 manage.py migrate app_names(optional) migration_id(optional)
```
* python shell
```
python3 manage.py shell # use it for testing instead of python3 / to lead settings.py
```
* Create superuser / admin page
```bash
python3 manage.py createsuperuser
```        
