# GIT


### Why git?
* Having clear history.
* Organizing teams with multiple developers.
* Having multiple versions of your software.
* Building CI/CD pipelines. * more on that later.

### Creating new github repo (remote repo):
* check out the [doc](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/create-a-repo)


### Creating offline repo
* create a directory and name itthe same as the remote repo
* navigate to the created directory.
* Add my files.
* git init .
* git add remote repo:
    - 2 types of urls:
        * SSH url: git@github.com:username/repo-name
        * https url: https://github.com/username/repo-name
    - Syntax: git remote add remoteName(origin) url
* git remote -v
* to modify your remote url use: git remote set-url remoteName(origin) url.
* git status
* git add fileName # untracked file => tracked file or you can use git add *
* to configure your identity:
    - git config user.name "username" --global
    - git config user.email "youremail" --global
* git commit -a -m "eg: first commmit"
* git branch -M branchName(master)
* git push remoteName(origin) branchName(master)
* to login:
    - option1: if you are using https url: use [github token](https://github.com/settings/tokens)
    - option2: if you are using git url add your key to github:
        * ssh-keygen # to generate a private/public key combo
        * cat id_rsa.pub file.
        * copy the previous file's content to [github ssh keys](https://github.com/settings/keys)




### Publishing your changes to the same branch
* git status
* git diff fileName 
* git log # commits history
* git push remoteName(origin) branchName(master)

### Getting new updates
* git pull remoteName branchName
* git fetch remoteName branchName
* git pull vs git fetch:
    * git fetch will get you the new updates without affecting your local files. => more on that later.

### Going back(Undo).
* HEAD is the last local commit
* remoteName(origin)/brancName is the last remote commit.
* git reset HEAD~1 # Get back one commits (compared to local)
* git reset HEAD~2 # Get back two commits
* git reset remoteName(origin)/branchName # Get back to last remote commit.
* git reset remoteName(origin)/branchName~2 # get back 2 commits(Compared to the remote repo)
* git restore fileName #resets the file back to it's state as per the last local commit.



### Branches
* git branch #lists availble local branches / marks your current branch with an "*"
* git branch branchName # to create new branch
* git checkout branchName # to switch branches.
* git checkout -b branchName # to create new branch and switch to it
* git branch -d branchName # to delete local git branch
* to merge a branch into another:
    - move to the branch you want to merge into using checkout command(branch A).
    - git merge branchName(B)

* Merge example: Bring new commits from testing and add them into the master branch 
```bash
git check master
git merge testing
git push origin master
```