# Homework 2: University System


* Deadline: 21st of July
### Topics:
* Object Oriented Programming.
* File manipulation.

### Required materials 
* scripts/1 up to scripts/6

### Description
* Implement all necessary classes, functions and main driver to handle the below system.
* The the description is not detailed intentionally so you can have flexibility in adding whatever functions you see fit, and to simulate real life scenario where the requirements can be loose sometimes. Feel free to ask for clarification anytime you want.
#### Employees data structure
* A university consisting of employees of various types (Lecturers, other Employees)
* All employees share common attributes:
    * ID.
    * Full Name
    * National ID.
    * Starting working date.
    * Working department.


* Lecturers can be either:
    * Working on a full time base with fixed salary.
    * Part timers who have fixed hourly rate (Eg: 20 JOD/hour)
    * Master students who teach for free in return of getting free masters scholarship.

### Employee functionalities:
employee classes should be able to handle these functionalities:
* get_working_durations => eg: 2 years 9 months  and 3 days
* get_payment => should return salaries / payment.
* apply_raise => takes a ratio for example 10% and increase the salary by the mentioned amount.
* get_bonus => takes a ratio for example 10 % and returns the bonus amount (Note that this is the ratio of the annual income)



### Students data structure
* Students have the following properties:
    * ID.
    * Full Name.
    * Major.

